Hello, my name is Victor Lou.
I am the Solutions Engineer of
Global Philanthropy of Daameer.org.
Helping researchers, academia,
and non-profits find the insights
that matter using data.
Today I am here to give you
a production environment,
personalized music recommendation project.
That was done for PonoMusic and
so what is Pono Music?
Pono Music is revolutionizing music
listening by bringing back native,
high-resolution audio.
It's the way that artists intended and
recorded their music.
Neil Young, the iconic artist and
musician is also the founder and CEO.
Pono Music is the only complete
high-resolution music ecosystem.
That includes the Pono player, the Pono
Music store, the Pono Music community.
They have been super
generous in allowing us to
take a look behind the scenes as how
we built out the recommendations.
So, David Meer supports their mission
by providing a music recommendation
engine that is both scalable and
flexible as Pono grows their user base.
Let's begin by visiting Pono
music's website as you can see,
they have a few shelves that focus on
various recommendations that are not
tailored to each individual user.
If you login,
then an additional shelf would appear
that would deliver the recommendations
that are created in data gear.
So how does DataMirror accomplish this.
In a nutshell, DataMirror is a end to end,
antalis platform which contains ingestion,
preparation analysis, visualization and
operationalization all the same platform.
And having all the capabilities
in one platform is superior to
traditional technology stack.
Integration between disparate technologies
brings a lot of unnecessary challenges.
We take advantage of open
source big data technologies.
Specifically, we run natively and
Hadoop and Spark for our back end.
And we leverage D3JS on the front end for
visualizations.
Our Excel-like interface makes it easy for
folks who don't know how to code to
also get in with the data modeling.
It is very much self-service.
In the case of Pono Music's
data mirror deployment,
we have deployed a Hadoop
on Amazon on web services.
But we can also be deployed off premise if
needed it doesn't have
to be in the clouds.
In fact, we could work with many many
different distributions of Hadoop.
We can access dean rear through
any modern web browser.
As you can see here we're using Google
Chrome but it works on any browser, right?
So lets go ahead and take a look at
the a; let's log into data grip,
so we're going to go ahead and
log in here..
So what you're seeing here is the browser
tab and we can see various artifacts
which include connections such
as connections to the pull nose,
salesforce.com instance or
a connection to AWS S3 instance.
Because DataMirror comes with so
many prebuilt connectors which include
Connections to salesforce.com and S3.
We can easily grant access to
those systems in order to pull or
push data in and out of the dev.
For example, let's take a quick look at
the salesforce.com configuration here.
As you can see, we've already configured
salesforce as the connector type.
When we hit next here,
we'll we that you can authorize
a data manager to retrieve data.
We're not going to do it because
this is a production environment, so
I don't want to disrupt the pools.
But if we were to click it, it'll give
us a salesfloor.com blogging stream.
And so as soon as we login, the Datameer
would have access via the O-Off token.
And so this is valid for a period of time.
I'm going to go ahead and
hit the cancel button as this
is a production environment.
And so now we're ready to look
at an import job artifact.
So this is the sales force import job and
as you can see we go in here and
we configure it.
We can see that it's connected to
the Pono Music SMDC connection.
I'm going to go ahead and
hit next here.with salesforce.com,
we just have to simply define the SOQL,
which is basically a querying
language that's based on SQL.
To locate data contained within
the salesforce.com objects.
You can see the select statement here,
you can also see the familiar
from statement, and you can also
see the where statement as well.
So in order to protect
the privacy of the users,
Datameer has the capability to obfuscate
sort of columns that are sensitive.
And so in other words, we can scramble
sensitive fields such as email or
physical addresses.
And at this point in time, I'm going to
go ahead and cancel out, and I'm going to
show the next part of this demo in
an obfuscated workbook environment.
The artifacts contained in the obfuscated
folders are duplicates of the import job
of the workbook from their production
counterparts as you can see here.
So as you can see in the import
job settings we have configured
the same connections here but
for the obfuscated columns here.
Now we're obfuscating the owner
email as well as the street address.
Now we hit Next here.
And so you can see, various fields are
being pulled here from Salesforce, right.
And in particular,
I want to highlight the.
The owner email, that field, so as you
can see these are the obfuscated fields.
Similarly, the actual street address,
that's also masked as well.
I'm going to go ahead and hit Cancel.
I will go back to, rather we're going to
go check out the workbook environment,
which is where we do the preparation and
analysis.
To the obfuscated workbook environment.
As you can see we're starting
with a raw source of data here.
This was the data that was
contained in the data sheet.
Take note that there's a variety of icons
that indicate different types of sheets.
So you could see here this
is the raw data type.
This is a regular worksheet.
You have a union sheet and
you have a joint sheet and
we'll go into a little bit
more detail as we get to them.
So, as you can see,
the interface is very much like Excel.
Looking at the second sheet pairs, and
it's using a function called group by.
So the group by function is a type of
aggregation function in Datameer speak.
As you can see, you can build
the functions by pointing and clicking.
But you can also enter the formula
to create nested functions or
Apply arithmetic
operations just as a cell.
We take all the unique combinations
of albums purchased for
each of the unique email
using a group pair function.
Then we pull out each of the elements
of the pairings using a list element
function, so let's see here.
If you were to build a function
from scratch, you can see this.
So then you create a group by function,
and then direct it at a column.
You basically pass it to argument.
To find out the occurrence
of each pairing of albums,
we're going to go ahead and
look at this LR sheet.
And so these are, we're using group
by functions as well here, so
we're grouping by the first item one,
and then item two.
And then, we're doing a group count,
which is counting the frequency
of occurrences of those cells.
Similarly, we're going to
do a similar thing but
with the item two first now, and then
item one, and then doing a group count.
And the reason is,
we don't care about the order.
And so, we repeat this on the next sheet
reversing the order of the albums to make
sure that we capture all the combinations
since the order doesn't matter to us.
And then we use our unit sheet function
to append the second frequency
counting sheet to the first frequency
counting sheet, as you can see here.
It's drag and drop, of course, and
so we've connected them together.
You can do multi-sheets but
in this case we only have two, right.
So it's, okay.
We ignore the co-occurrent set sheet as it
is currently not used in the final output.
We were kind of experimenting
with other recommendation models.
We're rebuilding those workbooks.
So one of the really cool features for
we can execute the workbook, but
deselect the storage of
intermediary sheets.
This means that we only need
relevant functions are executed
at a to the data lineage of columns that
are contained in the selector sheet.
Moving on, we have to create
a separate sheet from the raw data,
that counts the number of times an album
occurs across all of the purchases.
So you can see here, which students will
buy an album and then we do a count.
We bring the code occurrences and
the frequency together using the join
feature as you can see,
it is a drag and drop interface.
You got the obfuscated workbook
each of the worksheets here and
within each worksheets,
you got various columns.
You can bring those, you can drag and
drop them into here to do the joins.
You can do different types of joins,
you got the inner, outer, etc.
You can also do multi column joins.
You can do multi sheet joins.
You can also select which columns
you want to keep during the join.
Go ahead and cancel out here.
Datameer does not allow us to add
additional functions to a joint sheet so
we duplicate it by right clicking and
then hitting the duplicate button.
And then we create the next sheet,
which contains a link to columns, so
it will be linked to the rating sheet.
This is, see the link columns back
to the joint sheets and then.
We simply add a calculation
where it's the number of times
the co-occurrence occurs divided by
the number of times that the first album
in the column appears
throughout the data set.
The idea is to give a high recommendation
for albums that appear frequently
together While simultaneously
penalizing albums that are too common.
And so at this point,
I would like to write a few more joins
that bring together the album ID,
the email,
recommended album ID based on the album
ID and email, so take a look here.
So, as you can see here and then,
before we finish,
we also do an anti joint by performing
the outer left joint with
the almighty in the email.
And then filtering, so this is,
by the way, this is a double column joint.
And then we do a filter, so
then we filter out all the, for
the obfuscated owner
fields that are empty.
We apply a filter to it.
So finally, we use a few group I
functions to do some deep duplication,
so we use group by functions again.
And then, so we make sure that the album
functions are unique for each user and
then we use a group max function.
In order to preserve the highest
rating for each of the unique
recommendations the final desired
output is on the recommenders sheet.
It leverages the group top end function,
so you can see here group top numbers.
So we only want to look at the to
20 recommendations for each user.
And in addition,
we also create a email row number field,
which is a key that needed for
salesforce.com, and
it is generated by a simple
concatenation function here.
Something that note that [SOUND] is
big on data governance, data lineage.
As you can see, we can keep track of
how all the raw data flows through
from the raw data set all
the way to the end product.
So each workbook functions can be
also exported in JSON format to keep
track of revision history.
We're not ready to operationalize
things and so how do we do it?
Get our workbook configurations.
Go ahead and exit out of the workbook.
Let's go back to
the production environment.
As you can see,
the workbook recalculation retriggers
when the import job is completed.
We also only retain the latest results, so
we select purge historical results,
as you can see here.
As I mentioned earlier, a data mirror
makes it easy to operationalize a workbook
because we only select
the final output sheets.
And, so you see everything's unchecked
except for the recommended sheet.
And Datameer basically will automatically
determine what is a critical path
of the intermediary sheets to
produce the desired output sheet.
Once the recommendation
workbook is calculated,
then this triggers the export job run.
I'm going to go ahead and
move to the export job artifact.
Exit out of this.
Go ahead and save, or not save.
We'll see the export job,
let's go ahead and configure that.
Hit Next, Share.
CSV outputs, so.
This triggers the export job to run,
which is how we basically push
the results of the recommendations to S3.
We elected to use S3 because we
are already hosting at services and
S3 is an affordable storage solution.
We cannot push directly to
salesforce.com at the present because
It's a only connection.
Therefore, we need to push
data to the storage area,
which can be scheduled for using Apex.
A general challenge for
is the role limitation on each pool.
Fortunately, DataMirror comes
with the option to push
files that are broken
into one megabyte chunks.
So as you can see here in
advanced settings 1 megabyte, and
then we set a type of
consecutive numbering scheme.
And so it's dynamic naming conventions
using time stamps and numbering for
each of the chunks.
So that sums up the current
co-curds/d deployment.
As you've seen, we have easily
integrated data from Salesforce.com,
created a recommendation model, and
set up a push to S3 automatically for
easy consumption back to Salesforce.com.
Finally, we operationalized this by
triggering each of the steps sequentially
all in sitting on top of
the powerful Hadoop platform.
What's next?
Well, Pono Music is working on
implementing Google Analytics tracking for
each user at the Apple pages.
So let's go back to
the Apple Music Store here.
Just for an example, let's take a look
at the Train Led Zeppelin Two Album.
As you can see all of those album
IDs that we were looking at earlier,
these are actually embedded in the URL.
This means that in the near future, we
can actually adapt recommendations based
on the buying behavior to recommendations
based on both buying and browser behavior.
We can look at recommendations based on
genre, perhaps we can try to look at most
recent purchases or browsing behavior in
the last three to six to nine months.
Or we could use album metadata such as
album release date to give additional
recommendations.
Also, it is quite simple to just
duplicate the recommendations workbook in
[INAUDIBLE] to try any
number of these options.
And so,
that means we can do a lot of AB testing,
as we track how users react to each of
the modified recommendation algorithms.
The possibilities are literally endless.
So anyhow, thanks again for
checking out how Data Mirror
builds a simple code current
recommendation engine for music.
Please feel free to direction questions or
comments to me at
victor.liu@datamirror.com.
Thanks again.